I had talked about how memory works and
why it matters.
For example if I said, what is the weather
like, and it is said its 72 and
sunny and then I get fallow ups,
follow ups, follow ups are so critical.
They are so hard to do right especially
if you get tool calling and RAG and
all this stuff to be like as humans,
we do stuff like this.
We don't we keep context in our head.
And if I'm talking to you, I imagine
that you have that context in your head.
So I'm just gonna be what about tomorrow?
Imagine if some random person came up
to you and said, what about tomorrow?
You're what the hell
are you talking about?
[LAUGH] What Who are you?
What are you talking about?
It's cuz you didn't see this other
conversation they had, right?
You don't have the context.
So it's very important for
the AI to, have the context.
So if you ask follow up questions like
this, it can answer it, because either,
depending on the reasoning capabilities
of that model you're using,
it's either gonna hallucinate and be like,
I'm just gonna make something up.
Or it's gonna be like, I don't know what
the hell you're talking about, right,
what are you talking about?
So that is probably the number one use
case for having memory, is that you wanna
be able to offer follow up capabilities,
and you can't do that without memory.
So that's really good.
Also task continuity, we'll talk
about that when we get into loops and
multi-turn interactions.
Yes, agents can run on loops and
things like that.
We'll talk about that but then,
yeah, memory limitations, so
let's talk about this for a little bit.
LLMs have fixed context windows.
I've been talking about this for a while.
So you have to think of different
strategies of balancing like, I need this
thing to know all this detail, so I can
offer a follow up and have a conversation.
But damn, this person that's
using it is talking a lot, and
it's running out of memory.
What do I do?
So you have to think about
what does that look like?
I've seen a million different
ways to do that, right?
You might see some apps that are like
after you send X amount they'll Count
every token that you send, and after you
send X amount of tokens, or if you get
past a certain threshold, so they know
how many tokens their model can hold.
Once you reach a certain threshold,
they'll start evicting tokens.
So like an LRU cache,
they'll go back to the oldest thing, and
they'll start removing older
parts of the conversation.
So, you're now your assistant
doesn't have long term memory.
It has great short term memory.
But if you ask it something 12 days
ago and you use it every single day,
it's not gonna remember that
even though you're scrolling and
you see it, it's visually in your chat.
They're not feeding that to
the AI cuz they just evicted it.
So that could be a bad user experience.
But sometimes that works for
apps that don't have a lot of friends,
if you notice that your app, people
don't send thousands of messages a day.
They use it for two messages a day or
something like that.
So maybe you can get away with that,
because by time they run out of memory,
that's a month later, and
they don't really care about that anymore.
So you can just evict those messages.
Other things you'll see is every x amount
of tokens, or every x amount of messages.
Summarize the conversation so far and
put that in a system prompt, and
that way I don't have to send
every single message every time.
Maybe I only send the last five messages,
everything else is a summary of so far.
With an emphasis on details,
emphasis on personal details,
put that in the system prompt.
And then, yeah, you lost some things,
but at least you have enough there.
And I guess the way I think about it is
that's probably the closest how a human
would work, right?
I guess it depends on your
memory constraints, but
I would say most people probably remember
things that are more recent, right?
And things that are longer, it's a lot
harder to recall because, the details
are a little fuzzy, it's hard to remember
something like, I don't know, 10 years ago
that wasn't that special in your life,
versus something that happened yesterday.
It was very ordinary, right?
So it's because it just happened
yesterday, it's more recent.
So that's what they're doing with AIs,
like, take all these important things and
not important things, summarize them.
Emphasis on details put them in the
long-term memory in the system prompt and
then only show the last five or
so messages.
So, it knows very accurately about those
things that just happened that works
people do that.
I mean over time, you have to like
make sure your summary is constrained
to X amount of tokens,
otherwise your summary keeps getting big.
So, eventually if you just had this
chat running for two years and
it kept generating a summary,
cuz when you generate a summary you
gotta give it the previous summary to.
Otherwise, it doesn't know what that was,
so
it's like make a new summary off of these
messages plus the previous summary.
Eventually, it's gonna start to forget
things that happened 10 summaries
ago, right?
So eventually,
you still run into problems and
there's like really no perfect
solution about doing that.
It's really just about like balance.
That's why in the early days of ChatGPT,
there's like,
that's why they encourage
you just to make a new chat.
It's like, can you just make a new one?
Cuz like us trying to
figure this shit out for
you trying to remember
it is not gonna work.
We just can't do it.
Just make a new chat, please.
And so that's usually the solution
is just make a new chat, yeah.
>> Student: But could things like
RAG be used to help with this?
>> Scott Moss: Yes, RAG, yeah.
RAG stands for
Retrieval Augmented Generation.
It's a fancy word for,
I won't get into too much detail.
But basically,
it allows the AI to go search for
the most relevant parts of
a previous conversation according
to the user message, and
bring just those parts in.
Yes, that can help if you build
a good rack pipeline, and
that is a multi billion dollar company
of just figuring out how to do rack.
If there's one flashlight app of
AI right now It's trying to figure
out how to do RAG good.
And every day there's two
white papers that come out,
and it's like,
this is the best way to do RAG now.
And it's like impossible to keep up.
It is literally sent out a tweet a week
ago, or maybe two weeks ago and was like,
why is no one making RAG as a service?
This is so hard, and everyone needs it,
this should just be a thing, and
it just really isn't.
Cuz it really is very hard.
I had to spend like a month on
our app figuring out our garbage
implementation of it today.
So like it's quite difficult, but
when it works well, you're right.
It will do that, yeah.